mike cahn for george bush perhaps the
most crucial 90 minutes of his
presidency for bill clinton the big
confrontation he's long demanding for
ross perot a huge audience for his
message of change and sacrifice let's go
get it on let's get it on let's get it
from st louis nbc news decision 92 the
presidential debates
here is tom brokaw good evening from the
field house of washington university in
st louis where a debate of historic
proportions is about to begin
three candidates for president of the
united states on the same stage at the
same time this is the first of a series
of debates three of them over the next
eight days it's the final quarter of his
presidential campaign 90 minutes of
questions and answers tonight a panel of
journalists journalists and exchanges
between the candidates themselves in the
audience here the wives of the
candidates and of course their
supporters the moderator tonight jim
lehrer of pbs he's a liar and
macneil-lehrer and here he is now good
evening and welcome to the first of
three debates among the major candidates
for president of the united states
sponsored by the commission on
presidential debates the candidates are
independent candidate ross perot
governor bill clinton the democratic
nominee and president george bush the
republican nominee i am jim lehrer of
the macneil/lehrer newshour on pbs and i
will be the moderator for this 90-minute
event which is taking place before an
audience here in the athletic complex on
the campus of washington university in
st louis missouri three journalists
will be asking questions tonight they
are john massey of the boston globe and
compton of abc news and sander van ocher
a freelance journalist we will follow a
format agreed to by representatives of
the clinton and bush campaigns that
agreement contains no restrictions on
the content or subject-matter of the
questions each candidate will have up to
two minutes for a closing statement the
order of those as well as the
questioning was determined by a drawing
the first question goes to mr perot he
will have two minutes to answer to be
followed by rebuttals of one minute each
from governor clinton and then president
bush gentlemen good evening good evening
to the first topic tonight
is what separates each of you from the
other mr perot
what do you believe tonight is the
single most important separating issue
of this campaign like principal issue
but that separates me is that five and a
half million people came together on
their own and put me on the ballot i was
not put on the ballot by either of the
two parties i was not put on the ballot
by any pac money by any foreign
lobbyists money by any special interest
money this is a movement that came from
the people this is the way the framers
of the constitution intended our
government to be a government that comes
from the people over time we have
developed a government that comes at the
people that comes from the top down
where the people are more or less
treated as objects to be programmed
during the campaign with commercials and
media events and fear messages and
personal attacks and things of that
the thing that separates my candidacy
and makes it unique is that this came
from millions of people in 50 states all
over this country who wanted a candidate
that worked and belonged to nobody but
them i go into this race is their
servant and i belong to them so this
comes from the people
governor clinton one-minute response the
most important distinction in this
campaign is that i represent real hope
for change a departure from trickle-down
economics a departure from tax-and-spend
economics to invest and grow but before
i can do that i must challenge the
american people to change and they must
decide tonight i say to the president
mr bush for 12 years
you've had it your way you've had your
chance and it didn't work it's time to
change i want to bring that change to
the american people but we must all
decide first we have the courage to
change for hope and a better tomorrow
president bush one-minute response well
i think one thing that distinguishes his
experience i think we've dramatically
changed the world i'll talk about that a
little bit later but the changes are
mind-boggling for world peace kids go to
bed at night without the same fear of
nuclear war and change for change sake
isn't enough we saw that message in the
late 70s where a lot about change and
what happened that misery index went
right through the roof but i my economic
program i think is the kind to change we
want in the way we're going to get it
done is we're going to have a brand new
congress vladimer thrown out because of
all the scandals i'll sit down with him
democrats and republicans alike and work
for my agenda for american renewal which
represents real change but i'd say you
had to separate out i think it's
experience at this level
governor clinton how do you respond on
to the president on the question of two
minutes on the question of experience he
says that is what distinguishes him from
the other two of you i believe
experience counts but it's not
everything values judgment and the
record that i have amassed in my state
also should count for something i've
worked hard to create good jobs and to
educate people my state now ranks first
in the country and job growth this year
fourth and income growth fourth in the
reduction of poverty third in overall
economic performance according to a
major news magazine that's because we
believe in investing in education and in
jobs and we have to change in this
country you know my wife hillary gave me
a book about a year ago in which the
author defined insanity is just doing
the same old thing over and over again
and expecting a different result we have
got to have the courage to change
experience is important yes i've gotten
a lot of good experience and dealing
with ordinary people over the last year
a month i've touched more people's lives
and seen more heartbreak and hope more
pain and more promise than anybody else
who's run for president this year and i
think the american people deserve better
than they're getting we have gone from
first to 13th in the world in wages in
the last 12 years since mr bush mr
reagan have been in personal income has
dropped while people have worked harder
in the last four years there have been
twice as many bankruptcies as new jobs
created we need a new approach the same
old experience is not relevant we're
living in a new world after the cold war
and what works in this new world is not
trickle-down not government for the
benefit of the privileged view not
tax-and-spend but a commitment to invest
in american jobs and american education
controlling american healthcare costs
and bringing the american people
together that is what works and you can
have the right kind of experience in the
wrong kind of experience mine is rooted
in the real lives of real people and it
will bring real results if we have the
courage to change
president bush one minute to respond i
just thought of another
another big difference here between me i
don't believe mr perot feels this way
but i know governor clinton did because
i want to accurately quote him he thinks
i think he said that the country is
coming apart at the seams
now i know the only way he can win is to
make everybody believe the economy is
worse than it is
but this country is not coming apart at
the seams for heaven's sakes we're the
united states of america we in spite of
the economic problems we're the most
respected economy around the world many
would trade for it we've been caught up
in a global slowdown we can do much much
better but we ought not to try to
convince the american people that
america is a country that's coming apart
at the seams i would hate to be running
for president and think that the only
way i could win would be to convince
everybody how horrible things are yes
there are big problems and yes people
are hurting but i believe that this
agenda for american renewal that i have
is the answer to do it and i believe we
can get it done now whereas we didn't in
the past because you're gonna have a
whole brand-new bunch of people in the
congress that are gonna have to listen
to the same american people i'm
listening to mr perot omit it respond
sir well they've got a point i don't
have any experience and running up to
four trillion dollar debt
i don't have any experience and gridlock
government where nobody takes
responsibility for anything and
everybody blames everybody else i don't
have any experience in creating the
worst public school system in the
industrialized world the most violent
crime ridden society in the
industrialized world but i do have a lot
of experience and getting things done so
we're at a point in history where we
want to stop talking about it do it i've
got a lot of experience and figuring out
how to solve problems making the
solutions work and then moving on to the
next one
i've got a lot of experience not taking
ten years to solve a ten minute problem
so if it's time for action i think i
have experienced it count if there's
more time for gridlock and talking
finger-pointing i'm the wrong man
president bush the question goes to you
you have two minutes and the question is
this are there important issues of
character separating you from these
other two men i think the american
people should be the judge of that
i think character is a very important
question i said something the other day
where i was accused of being like joe
mccarthy because i questioned i put it
this way i think it's wrong to
demonstrate against your own country
or organize demonstrations against your
own country in foreign soil i just think
it's wrong i that maybe they say well is
a youthful indiscretion that was 19 or
20 flying off an aircraft carrier and
that shaped me to be commander-in-chief
of the armed forces and i'm sorry but
demonstrating it's not a question of
patriotism it's a question of character
and judgment they get on me bill's
gotten on me about read my lips when i
make a mistake i'll admit it but he has
made made had not admitted a mistake and
i just find it impossible to understand
how an american can demonstrate against
his own country in a foreign land
organizing demonstrations against it
when young men are held prisoner in
hanoi or kids out of the ghetto were
drafted some say well you're a little
old-fashioned maybe i am but i just
don't think that
right now whether it's character or
judgment whatever it is i have a big
difference here on this issue and so
we'll just have to see how it plays out
but i i couldn't do that
and i don't think most americans could
do that and they all say well is a long
time ago well let's admit it then say i
made a terrible mistake how could you be
commander-in-chief of the armed forces
and have some kids say when you have to
make a tough decision as i did in panama
or in in kuwait and then have to have
that some kid jump up and say well i'm
not going to go the commander-in-chief
was organizing demonstrations i halfway
around the world
now during during another era so there
are differences but that's about the
main area where i think we have a
difference i don't know about we'll talk
about that a little with ross here in a
bit mr perot you have one minute i
think american people make their own
decisions on character and at a time
when we have work to do and we need
action i think they need to clearly
understand the backgrounds of each
person i think the press can play a huge
role in making sure that the backgrounds
are clearly presented in an objective
way then make a decision certainly
anyone in the white house should have
the character to be there but i think
it's very important to measure when and
where things occurred did they occur
when you were a young person in your
formative years or did they occur while
you were a senior official in the
federal government when you're a senior
official in the federal government
spending billions of dollars of
taxpayers money and you're a mature
individual and you make a mistake then
that was on our ticket if you make it as
a young man time passes so i would say
just you know look at all three hours
decide who you think will do the job
pick that person in november because
believe me as i've said before the
party's over and it's time for the
cleanup crew and we do have to have
change and people who never take
responsibility for anything when it
happens on their watch and people who
are in charge you're thomas and result
as uh-oh or later more governor clinton
you have one minute ross gave a good
answer but i've got to respond directly
to mr bush you have questioned my
patriotism you even brought some
right-wing congressman into the white
house to plot how to attack me for going
to russia in 1969 1970 when over 50,000
other americans did
now i honor your service in world war
two i honor mr perot service in uniform
and the service of every man and woman
who ever served including admiral crowd
who was your chairman of the joint
chiefs and who's supporting me but when
joe mccarthy went around this country
attacking people's patriotism he was
wrong he was wrong and a senator from
connecticut stood up to him named
prescott bush your father was right to
stand up to joe mccarthy you were wrong
to attack my patriotism i was opposed to
the war but i love my country and we
need a president who will bring this
country together not divided we had
enough division i want to lead a unified
country all right we move now to the
subject of taxes and spending the
question goes to governor clinton for a
two-minute answer it will be asked by
ann compton governor clinton can you
lock in a level here tonight on where
middle-income families can be guaranteed
a tax cut or at the very least at what
income level they can be guaranteed no
tax increase the tax increase i have
proposed triggers in at family incomes
of $200,000 and above those are the
people who in the 1980s had their
incomes go up while their taxes went
down middle-class people defined as
people with incomes of $52,000 and down
had their incomes go down while their
taxes went up in the reagan bush years
because of six increases in the payroll
taxes so that is where my income limit
would trigger tax increases go to my
plan notwithstanding my opponent said my
pan triggers an at
gross incomes family incomes of 200,000
and above then we want to give modest
middle-class tax relief to restore some
fairness especially the middle class
people with families with incomes of
under $60,000 in addition to that the
money that i raise from upper income
people and from asking foreign
corporations just to pay the same income
on their income earned in america that
american corporations do will be used to
give incentives back to upper income
people i want to give people permanent
incentives on investment tax credit like
president kennedy in the congress
inaugurated in the early 60s to get
industry moving again a research and
development tax credit a low-income
housing tax credit a long-term capital
gains proposal for new business and
business expansions we've got to have no
more trickle-down we don't need
across-the-board tax cuts for the
wealthy for nothing we need to say
here's your tax incentives if you create
american jobs the old-fashioned way i'd
like to create more millionaires than
were created under mr bush and mr
reagan but i don't want to have four
years where we have no growth in the
private sector and that's what's
happened in the last four years we're
down 35,000 jobs in the private sector
we need to invest and grow and that's
what i want to do president bush one
minutes well let me i have to correct
one thing i didn't question the man's
patriotism i questioned his judgment and
his character what he did in moscow
that's fine let him explain it he did i
accept that but i don't accept is
demonstrating and organizing
demonstrations in a foreign country when
your country's at war i'm sorry i cannot
accept that in terms of this one on
taxes spells out the biggest difference
between us i do not believe we need to
go back to the mondale proposals of the
dukakis proposals of tax-and-spend
governor clinton says 200,000 but he
also says he wants to raise 150 billion
the tube taxing people over 200,000 will
not get you 150 billion and then when
you add in his other spending proposals
regrettably you end up sucking it to the
adage that they use we're gonna soak the
rich we're gonna soak the rich it always
ends up being the fourth cab driver or
the working man that ends up paying the
bill and so i just have a different
approach i believe the way to get the
deficit down is to control the growth of
mandatory spending programs and not
raise taxes on the american people get a
big difference thing mr perot one
we've got to have a growing expanding
job they used to give us a growing
expanded tax base right now we have a
flat deteriorating job base and where
it appears to be growing its
minimum-wage jobs so we've got to really
rebuild our job base that's going to
take money for infrastructure and
investment to do that our foreign
competitors are doing it we're not we
cannot pay off the four trillion dollar
debt balance the budget and have the
industries of the future and the
high-paying jobs in this country without
having the revenue we're going to go
through a period of shared sacrifice
there's one challenge it's got to be
fair we've created a mess don't have
much to show for it and we have got to
fix it and that's about all i can say in
a minute okay next question goes to
president bush for a two-minute answer
and it will be asked by sandy vanover
mr president this past week your
secretary of the army
michael stone said he had no plans to
abide by a congressional mandate to cut
us forces in europe from 150 to 100,000
by the end of september 1996 now why
almost 50 years after the end of world
war two and with the total collapse of
the soviet union should american
taxpayers be taxed support armies in
europe when the europeans have plenty of
money to do it for themselves well
sandir that's a good question and the
answer is for 40 some years we kept the
peace if you look at the cost of not
keeping the peace in europe it would be
exorbitant we have reduced the number of
troops that are deployed and going to be
deployed i have cut defense spending and
the reason we could do that is because
of our fantastic success in winning the
cold war we never would have got there
if we'd gone for the nuclear freeze
crowd never would have got there for the
if we'd listened to those that wanted to
cut defense spending i think it is
important that the united states stay in
europe and continue to guarantee the
peace we simply cannot pull back now
when anybody has a spending program they
want to spend money on at home they say
well let's cut money out of the defense
department i will accept and have
accepted the recommendations of two
proven leaders general colin powell and
dick secretary dick cheney they feel
that the levels were operating at and
the reductions that i have proposed are
proper and so i simply do not think we
should go back to the isolation days and
start blaming foreigners we are the sole
remaining superpower and we should be
that and we have a certain
disproportionate responsibility but i
would ask the american people to
understand that if we make imprudent
cuts if we go too far we risk the peace
and i don't want to do that i've seen
what it is like to see a war and i to
see the burdens of a war and i don't
want to see us make reckless cuts
because of our programs we have been
able to significantly cut defense
spending but let's not cut into the
muscle and let's not cut down our
insurance policy which is participation
of american forces in nato the greatest
peacekeeping organization ever made
today you got problems in europe still
bubbling along even though don't
europe's going demont democracies route
but we we are there and i think this
insurance policy is necessary i think it
goes with world leadership and i think
the levels we've come up with are just
about right mr perot one minute sir
if i'm poor and you're a rich and i can
get you to defend me that's good but
when the tables get turned now to do my
share right now we spend about 300
billion dollars a year on defense
japanese spent around 30 billion in
tunisia the germans spend around 30
billion in europe for example germany
will spend a trillion dollars building
infrastructure over the next 10 years
it's kind of easy to do if you only have
to pick up 30 billion dollar tab to
defend your country
the european community is in a position
to pay a lot more than they have in the
i agree with the president when they
couldn't we should have now that they
can they should we sort of seem to have
a desire to try to stay over there and
control it they don't want us to control
it very candidly so it i think is very
important for us to let them a shirt
assume more and more of a burden and for
us to bring that money back here and
rebuild our infrastructure because we
can only be a superpower if we are an
economic superpower and we can only be
an economic superpower if we have a
growing expanding job base governor
one minute sir i agree with the general
statement mr bush made i disagree that
we need 150,000 troops to fulfill our
role in europe we certainly must
maintain an engagement there there are
certainly dangers there there certainly
other trouble spots in the world which
are closer to europe then to the united
states but to former defense secretaries
recently issued a report saying that a
hundred thousand or slightly fewer
troops would be enough including
president reagan's former defense
secretary mr carlucci many of the
military experts whom i consulted on
this agreed we're going to have to spend
more money in the future on military
technology and on greater mobility
greater airlift greater sea lift the
v-22 airplane we're going to have to do
some things that are quite costly and i
simply don't believe we can afford an
hour do we need to keep 150,000 troops
in europe given how much the red army
now under the control of russia has been
cut the arms control agreement concluded
between mr bush and mr yeltsin
something i have applauded i don't think
we need 150,000 troops let me make one
other point mr bush talked about taxes
he didn't tell you that he vetoed the
middle-class tax cut because it would be
paid for by raising taxes on the wealthy
and vetoed and investment tax credit
all right we'd go now to a to mr perot
for a two minute question and it will be
asked by john mashuk mr perot you
talked about fairness just a minute ago
on sharing the pain as part of your plan
to reduce the ballooning federal deficit
you've suggested that we raise gasoline
taxes 50 cents a gallon over five years
why punish the middle class consumer to
such a degree it's ten cents a year
accumulative it finally gets to 50 cents
at the end of the fifth year i think
punished is the wrong word again see i
didn't create this problem we're trying
to solve it now if you study our
international competitors some of our
international competitors collect up to
three dollars and fifty cents a gallon
in taxes and they use that money to
build infrastructure and create jobs we
collect 35 cents and we don't have it to
i know it's not popular and i understand
the nature of your question but the
people who will be helped the most by it
aren't the working people who will get
the jobs created because of this tax why
do we have to do it because we have so
mismanaged our country over the years
and it is now time to pay the fiddler
and if we don't we will be spending our
children's money we have spent four
trillion dollars worth an incredible
number of young people are active in
supporting my effort because they're
deeply concerned that we have taken the
american dream from them i think it's
fitting that we're on the campus of the
university of the night these young
people when they get out of this
wonderful university will have
difficulty finding a job we've got to
clean this mess up leave this country in
good shape and pass on the american
dream to them we've got to collect the
taxes to do it if there's a fair way i'm
all ears
see let me make it very clear people
don't have the stomach to fix these
problems i think it's good time to face
it november if they do then they will
have heard the harsh reality of what we
have to do i'm not playing large rock
music tonight all right governor clinton
you have a minute sir i think mr perot
has confronted this deficit issue but i
think it's important to point out that
we really have two deficits in america
not one we have a budget deficit in the
federal government but we also have an
investment of jobs an income deficit
people are working harder for less money
than they were making ten years ago
two-thirds of our people a $1,600 drop
in average income in just the last two
years the problem i have with the perot
prescription is that almost all
economists who've looked at it say that
if you cut the deficit this much this
quick it will increase unemployment it
will slow down the economy that's why i
think we shouldn't do it that quickly we
have a discipline reduction in the
deficit of 50 over the next four years
but first get incentives to invest in
this economy put the american people
back to work we've got to invest and
grow nine nobel prize-winning economists
and 500 others including numerous
republican and democratic business
executives have endorsed this approach
because it offers the best hope to put
america back to work and get our incomes
rising instead of falling president bush
one minute sir the question was on
fairness i i just disagree with mr
perot i don't believe it is fair to slap
a 50-cent per-gallon tax over whatever
the many years on the people i have to
drive for living people that go long
distances i don't think we need to do it
you see i have a fundamental difference
i agree with what he's talking about and
trying to get the spending down and the
discipline although i think we ought to
totally exempt social security but he's
he's talking tough medicine and i think
that's good i disagree with the
philosophy you see i don't think we need
to tax more and spend more and then say
that's going to make make the problem
better and i'm afraid that's what i
think i'm hearing from governor clinton
i believe what you need to do is some of
what ross is talking about
control the growth of mandatory spending
and get taxes down he's mentioned some
ways to do it and i agree with those
i've been talking about getting a
capital gains cut forever and his
friends in congress have been telling me
that's a tax break for the rich it would
stimulate investment
i'm foreign investment tax allowance i
am for a first-time a tax break for
first-time homebuyers and with this new
congress coming in gridlock will be gone
and i'll sit down with them and say
let's get this done but i do not want to
go the tax-and-spend route all right
let's move on now to the subject of jobs
the first question goes to president
bush for two minutes and john will ask
that question john mr president last
month you came to st louis to announce
a very lucrative contract for mcdonnell
douglas to build f-15s for saudi arabian
today's post-dispatch a retired
saleswoman a 75 year old woman named
marjorie roberts asked if she could ask
a question of the candidates said she
wanted to register her concern about the
lack of a plan to convert our defense
oriented industries into other purposes
how would you answer her well i assume
she was supportive of the decision on
mcdonnell douglas i assumed she was
supporting me on the decision to sell
those airplanes i think it's a good
decision took a little heat for it but i
think it was the correct the correct
decision to do and we worked it out and
indeed we're moving forward all around
the world in a much more peaceful way so
that one we came away with which in
creating jobs for the american people i
would simply say to her look take a look
at what the president has proposed on
job retraining when you cut back on
defense defense spending some people are
going to be thrown out of work if you
throw another fifty thousand kids on the
street because of cutting recklessly and
troop levels you're going to put a lot
more out on work i would say to them
look at the job retraining programs that
we're proposing therein is the best
answer to her and another one is
stimulate investment in savings i mean
we've got big economic problems but we
are not coming apart at this
seems we're ready for a recovery with
interest rates down and inflation down
the cruellest tax of all caught up in a
global slowdown right now but that will
change if you go with the programs i've
talked about and if you help with job
retraining and education i am a firm
believer that our america 2000 education
problem is the answer a little longer
run it's going to take a while to
educate but it is a good program so her
best hope for short-term is job
retraining if she was thrown out of work
at a defense plan but tell her it's not
all that gloomy we're the united states
we got we faced tough problems before
look at the misery index when when the
democrats had both the white house and
the in the congress it was just right
through the roof now we can do better
and the way to do better is not to tax
and spend but to retrain get that
control of the mandatory spending
programs i i'm much more optimistic
about than about this country than some
mr perot
mr perot you have one minute sir
defense industries are going to have to
convert to civilian industries many of
them are and the sooner they start the
sooner they'll finish and there will be
a significant transition and it's very
important that we not continue to let
our industrial base deteriorate we had
someone who i'm sure regret said it in
the president's staff said he didn't
care whether we made potato chips or
computer chips well anybody that thinks
about it cares a great deal
number one you make more making computer
chips than you do potato chips number
two 19 out of 20 computer chips that we
have in this country now come from japan
we've given away whole industries so as
we phase these industries over there's a
lot of intellectual talent in these
industries a lot of these people can
industries can be converted to the
industries of tomorrow and that's where
the high-paying jobs are we need to have
a very carefully thought through trent
phase over now other could see we
practice 19th century capitalism rest of
the world practices the 21st century
capitalism we've got to hope i can't
handle that
but i hope we get back into it later in
the rest of the world the countries and
the businesses would be working together
to make this transition in an
intelligent way governor clinton you
have one minute sir we must we must have
a transition plan to plan to convert
from a defense to a domestic economy no
other nation would have cut defense as
much as we already have without that
there are 200,000 people unemployed in
california alone because we have cut
defense without planning to retrain them
and to reinvest in the technologies of
the future here at home that is what i
want to do this administration may say
they have a plan but the truth is they
have not even released all the money the
paltry sum of money that congress
appropriated i want to take every dollar
by which we reduce defense and reinvest
it in technologies for the 21st century
in new transportation and communication
and environmental cleanup technologies
let's put the american people to work
and let's build the kind of high-tech
high-wage high-growth economy that the
american people deserve all right the
next question goes to mr perot for a
two-minute answer it will be asked by an
and mr perot you talked a minute ago
about rebuilding the job base but is it
true what governor clinton just said
that that means that unemployment will
increase that it'll slow the economy and
how would you specifically use the
powers of the presidency to get more
people back into good jobs immediately
step one the american people send me up
there the day after election i'll get
with a congressional inauguration and i
asked the president to help me and i'll
ask his staff to help me and we will
start putting together teams to put
together to take all the plans that
exist and do something with them
please understand they're great plans
lying all over washington nobody ever
executes it's like having a blueprint
for a house you never built you don't
have anywhere to sleep now
i challenge is to take these things do
something with them step one you want to
put america back to work
clean up the small business problem have
one task force that work on that the
second you've got your big companies
that are in trouble including the
defense industries have another one on
that have a third task force on new
industries of the future to make sure we
nail those for our country
they don't wind up in europe and asia
convert from 19th to 21st century
capitalism say we have an adversarial
relationship between government and
business our international competitors
that are cleaning our plate have an
intelligent relationship between
government and business and a supportive
relationship then have another task
force on crime because next to jobs our
people are concerned about their safety
health care schools one on the debt and
deficit and finally in that 90-day
period before the inauguration put
together the framework for the town hall
and give the american people of
christmas present show them back
christmas the first cut at these plans
by the time congress comes into session
to go to work have those plans ready to
go in front of congress then get off to
a flying start in 93 to execute these
plans now there are people in this room
and people on this stage you've been in
meetings when i would sit there and see
is this one we're going to talk about or
do something about well obviously my
orientation is let's go do it now put
together your plans by christmas be
ready to go when congress goes mail
these things small business you've got
to have capital you've got to have
credit and many of them need mentors or
coaches and we can create more jobs
there in a hurry than any other place
governor clinton one minute
this country desperately needs a jobs
program and my first priority would be
to pass a jobs program to introduce it
on the first day i was inaugurated i
would meet with the leaders of the
congress with all the newly elected
members of the congress there's many
other says whom i could meet between the
time of the election and the
inauguration and we would present a jobs
program then we would present a plan to
control health care costs and phase in
health care coverage for all americans
until we control health care costs we're
not going to control the deficit it is
the number one culprit but first we must
have an aggressive jobs program i live
in a state where manufacturing job
growth has far outpaced the nation in
the last few years where we have created
more private-sector jobs since mr bush
has been president than have been
created in the entire rest of the
country where mr bush's labor secretary
said the job growth has been enormous
we've done it in arkansas give me a
chance to create these kind of jobs in
america we can do it i know we can
president bush one minute we've got the
plan announced for what we can do for
small business i've already put forward
things that will get this country
working fast some of which have been
echoed here tonight vestment tax
allowance capital gains reduction more
on research and development tax credit
for first-time homebuyers what i'm going
to do is say to jim becker when this
campaign is over all right let's sit
down now you do in domestic affairs what
you've done in foreign affairs be the
kind of the economic coordinator of all
the domestic side of the house and
that's that includes all the economic
side all the training side and bring
this program together we're gonna have a
new congress and we're gonna say to them
you've listened to the voters the way we
have nobody wants gridlock anymore and
so let's get the program through and i
believe it'll work because we're all
said we got the plans the plans are all
over washington and i've put ours
together in something called the agenda
for american renewal and it makes sense
it's sensible it creates jobs
gets to the base of the kind of jobs we
need and so i'll just be asking for
support to get that put into effect all
right the next question goes to governor
clinton for two minutes it will be asked
by sandy governor clinton when a
president running for the first time
gets into the office and wants to do
something about the economy he finds in
washington there's a person who has much
more power of the economy than he does
the chairman of the federal reserve
board accountable to no one that being
the case would you go along with
proposals made by treasury secretary
james brady and congressman lee hamilton
to make the federal reserve board
chairman somehow more accountable to
elected officials well let me say that i
think that we might ought to review the
terms and the way it works but frankly i
don't think that's the problem they we
have low interest rates today at least
we have low interest rates that the fed
can control our long-term interest rates
are still pretty high because of our
deficit and because of our economic
performance and there was a terrible
reaction internationally to mr bush
saying he was going to give us four more
years of trickle-down economics and
other across-the-board tax cut and most
of it going to the wealthy with no real
guarantee of investment but i think the
important thing the important thing is
to use the powers the president does
have on the assumption that given the
condition of this economy we're going to
keep interest rates down if we had the
discipline to increase investment and
reduce the debt at the same time that is
my commitment i think the american
people are hungry through action i think
congress is hungry for someone who will
work with them instead of manipulate
them someone who will not veto a bill
that has an investment tax credit
middle-class tax relief research and
development tax credits as mr bush has
done give me a chance to do that i don't
have to worry i don't think in the near
term about the federal reserve their
policies so far it seems to me are
pretty sound
president bush you have one minute i
don't i don't think the fed ought to be
put under the executive branch
there is separation there i think that's
fine alan greenspan is respected i've
had some arguments with him about the
state in which we might have lowered
rates but governor clinton he talks
about the reaction to the markets there
was a momentary fear that he might win
and that the markets went down like that
so it's been very strong since i've been
president and they recognized we got
great difficulties but they're also much
more optimistic than the pessimists we
have up here tonight in terms of vetoing
tax bills you're darn right i am going
to protect the american taxpayer against
the spend and tax congress and i'm going
to keep on vetoing them because i don't
think we are taxed too little i think
the government spending too much so
governor clinton can label a tax for the
rich or anything he wants i'm gonna
protect the working man by continuing to
veto and to threaten veto until we get
this new congress when then we're gonna
move forward on our plan i've got a
protector mr perot one minute keep the
federal reserve independent but let's
live in a world of reality we live in a
global economy not a national economy
these interest rates we have now don't
make any sense we have a four trillion
dollar debt and only in america would
you finance 70 of it five years or less
so 70 of our debt is five years or less
it's very entry sensitive we have a four
percent gap between what we pay for
treasuries and what germany pays the one
to five year treasuries that gap is
going to close because the arabs the
japanese and folks in this country are
going to start buying german treasuries
because they can get more money every
time our interest rates go up 1 that
adds 28 billion dollars to the deficit
or to the debt whichever place you want
to put it we are sitting on a ticking
bomb folks because we have totally
mismanaged our country and we had better
get it back under control just think in
your own business if you had all of your
long-term problems financed short-term
you'd go broke in a hurry all right
we're gonna move gonna move to foreign
affairs the question first question goes
to mr perot for a two minute answer and
sandy will ask it mr perot in the
post-war world a cold war environment
what should be the overriding u.s
national interest and what can the
united states do and what can it afford
to do to defend that national interest
well again if you're not rich or not a
superpower so we have two that i'd put
his number one i have one in one-eighth
one is we've got to have the money to be
able to pay for defense and we've got to
manufacture here believe it or not folks
you can't ship it all overseas you got
to make it here and you can't convert
from potato chips to airplanes and an
emergency say well iran could be
converted from cars to airplanes in
world war two because it was here we've
got to make things here you just can't
ship them overseas anymore i hope we
talk more about that second thing on
priorities we've got to help russia
succeed in its revolution and all of its
republics when we think of russia
remember we're thinking of many
countries now we've got to help them
that's pennies on the dollar compared to
renewing the cold war third we've got
all kinds of agreements on paper and
some that are being executed on getting
rid of nuclear warheads russia and it's
republic's are out of control or at best
and we control right now it's a very
unstable situation you've got every rich
middle eastern country over there trying
to buy a nuclear weapons as you well
know and that will lead to another
five-star migraine headache down the
road we really need to nail down the
intercontinental ballistic missiles the
ones that can hit us from russia and
that we're focused on the tactical we've
made real progress there we've got some
agreements on the nuclear
but we don't have those things put away
yet the sooner the better so in terms of
priorities we've got to be financially
strong number two we've got to take care
of this missile situation and try to get
the nuclear war behind us and give that
a very high priority and number three we
need to help and support russia and the
republic's in every possible way to
become democratic capitalistic societies
and not just sit back and let those
countries continue in turmoil because
they could go back worse than things
used to be and believe me there are a
lot of old boys and the kgb and the
military they liked it too better the
way it used to be thank you governor
clinton um one minute in order to keep
america the strongest nation in the
world we need some continuity and some
change there are three fundamental
challenges first of all the world is
still a dangerous and uncertain place we
need a new military and a new national
security policy equal to the challenges
of the post cold war era a smaller
permanent military force but one that is
more mobile well-trained with high
technology equipment we need to continue
the negotiations to reduce the nuclear
arsenals in the soviet union the former
soviet union and the united states we
need to stop this proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction second we
have to face that in this world economic
security is a whole lot of national
security our dollars at an all-time low
against some foreign currencies we're
weak in the world we must rebuild
america strengths at home and finally we
ought to be promoting the democratic
impulses around the world democracies
are our partners they don't go to war
with each other they're reliable friends
in the future national security economic
strength democracy
president bush one minute we still are
the envy of the world in terms of our
military there's no question about that
we're the envy of the world in terms of
our economy despite of the difficulties
we're having there's no question about
that our exports are dramatically up
i might say to mr poirot i can
understand why you might have missed it
because there's so much fascination by
trivia but i worked out a deal with
boris yeltsin to eliminate get rid of
entirely the most destabilizing weapons
of all the ss-18 the big
intercontinental ballistic missile i
mean that's been done and thank god it
has because the parents of these young
people around here go to bed at night
without the same fear of nuclear war we
made dramatic progress and so we've got
a good military the question is as we
get a new military get the best in the
world we got it and they're keeping the
peace and they're respected around the
world and we are more respected because
the way we have conducted ourselves we
didn't listen to the nuclear freeze
crowd we said peace through strength and
it worked and the cold war is over in
america understands that but we're so
turned so inward we don't understand the
global picture and we are helping
democracy brosse the freedom support act
is something that i got through the
congress and it's a very good thing
because it does exactly what you say and
i think you agree with that to help us
run democracy we're gonna keep on doing
that alright next question is for
governor clinton and john we'll ask
governor clinton you've accused the
president of coddling tyrants including
those in beijing as president how would
you exert u.s power to influence
affairs in china i think our
relationships with china are important
and i don't think we want to isolate
but i think it is a mistake for us to do
what this administration did when all
those kids went out there carrying the
statue of liberty and gentleman's quick
mr bush sent to people in secret the
the chinese leaders and basically tell
him not to worry about it they rewarded
him by opening negotiations with iran to
transfer nuclear technology that was
their response to that sort of action
now that voices in the congress and
throughout the country
have insisted that we do something about
china look what has happened
china has finally agreed to stop sending
us products made with prison labor not
because we coddle them but because the
administration was pushed into doing
something about it and recently the
chinese have announced that they're
going to lower some barriers to our
products which they ought to do since
they have a 15 billion dollar trade
surplus with the united states under mr
bush the second biggest surplus of all
second to japan so i would be firm i
would say if you want to continue most
favored nations status for your
government-owned industries as well as
your private ones observe human rights
in the future
open your society recognize the
legitimacy of those kids that were
carrying the statue of liberty if we can
stand up for our economic interests we
ought to be able to pursue the
democratic interests of the people in
china and over the long run there will
be more reliable partners
president bush you have one minute the
administration was the first major
country to stand up against the abuse in
tiananmen square we are the ones that
worked out the prison labor deal we are
the ones that have lowered the barrier
to products but carla hills negotiation
i am the one that said let's keep the
mfn because you see china moving towards
a free-market economy to do with the
congress and governor clinton is
suggesting you isolate and ruin hong
kong they are making some progress not
enough for us we were the first ones to
put sanctions on we still have them on
on some things but the governor
clinton's philosophy is isolated he says
don't do it but the policies he's
expounding of putting conditions on mfn
and kind of humiliating them is not the
way you make the kind of progress we are
getting and i've stood up with these
people and i understand what you have to
do to be strong in this situation and
it's moving not as fast as we'd like but
you isolate china and turn them in work
and then we've made a tremendous mistake
and i'm not going to do it and i've had
to fight a lot of people that were
saying human rights and we are the ones
that put the sanctions on and stood for
it and he can insult general scowcroft
if he wants to
they didn't go over to cuddle he went
over to say but must make the very
changes they're making now
one minute mr perot it's a huge china
is a huge country broken into many
provinces it has some very elderly
leaders that will not be around too much
capitalism is growing and thriving
across big portions of china asia will
be our largest trading partner in the
future it will be a growing and a closer
relationship we have a delicate tight
wire rule that we must go through at the
present time to make sure that we do not
cozy up to tyrants to make sure that
they don't get the impression that they
can suppress their people but time is
our friend there because their leaders
will change in not too many years worst
case and their country is making great
progress one last point on the missiles
i don't want the american people to be
confused we have written agreements and
we have some muscles that have been
destroyed but we have a huge number of
intercontinental ballistic missiles that
are still in place in russia the fact
that you have an agreement is one thing
till they're destroyed some crazy person
can either sell them or use them alright
the next question goes to president bush
for a two-minute answer and an we'll ask
it mr president
how can you watch the killing in bosnia
and the ethnic cleansing or the
starvation and anarchy in somalia and
not want to use america's might if not
america's military to try to end that
kind of suffering
and both of them are very complicated
situations and i vowed something because
i learned something from vietnam i'm not
going to commit us forces until i know
what the mission is
till the military tell me that it can be
completed until i know how they can come
out we are helping american airplanes
are helping today on humanitarian or
relief for sarajevo it is america that's
in the lead in helping with humanitary
relief for somalia but when you go to
put somebody else's son or daughter into
war i think you've got to be a little
bit careful and you have to have be sure
that there's a military plan that can do
this you have ancient ethnic rivalries
that have cropped up as yugoslavia is
dissolved or getting dissolved and it
isn't going to be solved by sending in
the 82nd airborne and i'm not going to
do that as commander-in-chief i am gonna
stand by and use the moral persuasion of
the united states to get satisfaction in
terms of prison camps and we're making
some progress there and in terms of
getting humanitarian relief in there and
right now as you know the united states
took the lead and a no-fly operation up
there in a no-fly order up in the united
nations we're working through the
international organizations the united
states one thing i learned by forging
that tremendous and greatly highly
successful coalition against saddam
hussein the dictator use work
internationally to do it i am very
concerned about it i'm concerned about
ethnic cleansing i'm concerned about
attacks on muslims for example over
there but i must stop short of using
american force until i know how those
young men and women are going to get out
of there as well as get in know what the
mission is and define it and i think i'm
on the right track and sorry sorry time
is up we have to go to mr perot for a
one-minute response
like if we learned anything in vietnam
its you first commit this nation before
you commit the troops to the battlefield
we cannot send our people all over the
world to solve every problem that comes
up this is basically a problem that is a
primary concern to the european
community certainly we care about the
people we care about the children we
care about the tragedy but it is
inappropriate for us just because
there's a problem somewhere around the
world to take the sons and daughters of
working people and make no mistake about
it our all-volunteer armed force is not
made up of the sons and daughters the
beautiful people the working folks who
send their sons and daughters to war
with a few exceptions very unlike world
war two when fdr sons flew missions
everybody went it's a different world
now very important that we not just
without thinking it through just rush to
every problem in the world and have our
people torn to pieces governor clinton
one minute i agree that we cannot commit
ground forces to become involved in the
quagmire of bosnia or in the tribal wars
of somalia but i think that it's
important to recognize that there are
things that can be done short of that
and that we do have interests there
there are after all two million refugees
now because of the problems in what was
yugoslavia the largest number since
world war two and there may be hundreds
of thousands of people who will starve
or freeze to death in this winter the
united states should try to work with
his allies and stop it i urged the
president to support this air cover and
he did and i applaud that
i applaud the no-fly zone and i know
that he's going back to the united
nations to try to get authority to
enforce it i think we should stuff a
stiffen the embargo and the belgrade
government and i think we have to
consider whether or not we should lift
the arms embargo now on the bosnian
since they are in no way in a fair fight
with a heavily armed opponent bent on
ethnic cleansing we can't get involved
in the quagmire but we must do what we
can all right moving on now to
divisions in our country the first
question goes to governor clinton for
two minutes and an we'll ask it governor
clinton can you tell us what your
definition of the word family is a
family involves at least one parent
whether natural are adoptive or foster
and children good family is a place
where love and discipline and good
values are transmuted from the elders to
the children a place where people turn
for refuge and where they know they're
the most important people in the world
america has a lot of families that are
in trouble today there's been a lot of
talk about family values in this
campaign i know a lot about that i was
born to a widowed mother who gave me
family values and grandparents i've seen
the family values of my people in
arkansas i've seen the family values of
all these people in america who are out
there killing themselves working harder
for less in a country that's had the
worst economic years in 50 years and the
first decline in industrial production
ever i think the president owes it to
family values to show that he values
america's families whether there are
people on welfare you're trying to move
from welfare to work the working poor
and i think deserve a tax break to lift
them above poverty if they've got a
child in the house and working 40 hours
a week working families who deserve a
fair tax system and the opportunity for
constant retraining they deserve a
strong economy and i think they deserve
a family and medical leave act 72 other
nations have been able to do it mr bush
vetoed it twice because he says we can't
do something 72 other countries do even
though it was a small business exemption
so with all the talk about family values
i know about family values i wouldn't be
here without them the best expression of
my family values is that tonight's my
17th wedding anniversary and i'd like to
close my question by just wishing my
wife a happy anniversary and back
my daughter for dnews
president bush one minute well i would
say that one meeting that made a
profound impression on me was when the
mayors of the big cities including the
mayor of los angeles democrat came to
save me and they unanimously said the
decline in urban america stems from the
decline in the american family so i do
think we need to strengthen family
when barbara holds an aids baby she's so
in a certain compassion for family when
she reads to children the same thing i
believe that discipline and respect for
the law all of these things should be
taught to children not in our schools
but families have to do that i'm
appalled at the highest outrageous
numbers of divorces it happens in
families it's happened in ours but it's
gotten too much and i just think that we
ought to do everything we can to respect
the american family it can be a
single-parent family those mothers need
need help and one way to do it is to get
these deadbeat father's to pay their
obligations to these mothers that'll
help strengthen the american family and
there's a whole bunch of other things
that i can't click off in this short
period of time all right mr perot you
have one minute if i had to solve all
the problems that face this country and
i could be granted one wish as we
started down the trail to rebuild the
job base the schools and so on and so
forth i would say a strong family unit
in every home where every child is loved
nurtured and encouraged a little child
before they're 18 months learns to thank
well of himself or herself or pulley
they develop a positive or negative
self-image at a very early age they
learn how to learn if we have children
who are not surrounded with love and
affection see i look at my grandchildren
wonder if they'll ever learn to walk
because they're always in someone's arms
and i think my gosh wouldn't it be
wonderful if every child had that love
and support but they don't we will not
be a great country unless we have a
strong family unit in every home and i
think you can use the white house as a
bully pulpit to stress the importance of
these little children particularly in
their young and formative years
to mold these little precious pieces of
clay so that they too can live rich full
lives when they're grown
new question two-minute answer goes to
president bush sandy will ask him mr
president there's been a lot of talk
about harry truman in this campaign so
much so that i think tomorrow wake up
and see him named as the next
commissioner of baseball the thing that
mr truman didn't have to deal with is
americans are increasingly alarmed about
drug-related crimes in cities and
suburbs and your administration is not
the first to have grappled with this and
are you at all of a mind that maybe it
ought to go to another level if not
what's advocated by william f buckley jr
and milton friedman
legalization somewhere between there and
where we are now no i don't think that's
the right answer
i don't believe legalizing narcotics is
the answer i just don't believe that's
the answer i do believe that there's
some fairly good news out there the use
of cocaine for example by teenagers is
dramatically down but we've got to keep
fighting on this war against drugs we're
doing a little better in interdiction
many of the countries below that used to
say well this is united states problem
if you'd get the demand down then we
wouldn't have the problem our working
cooperatively with the dea and other law
in the art of the military we're using
the military more now in terms of
introduction our funding for recovery is
up recovering the attics where we're not
making the progress sander is in we're
making it in teenagers and thank god
because i thought what ross said was
most appropriate about these families in
these children but we're we're not
making it is with the confirmed
attics and i'll tell you one place
that's that's working well and that is
the private sector jim burke and this
task force that he has you may know
about it i tell the american people but
this man said i'll get you a million
dollars a day in pro bono advertising
something that's very hard for the
government to do
he went out and he did it and people are
beginning to educate through this
program teaching these kids you
shouldn't use drugs so we're still in
the fight but i must tell you i think
legalization of narcotics or something
of that nature in the face of the
medical evidence would be totally
counterproductive and i oppose it and
i'm going to stand up and continue to
oppose it mr perot
any time you think you want to legalize
drugs go to a neonatal unit if you can
get in there between 100 and 200 percent
capacity up and down the east coast and
the reason is crack babies being born
babies in the hospital 42 days typical
costs to you and me is 125 thousand
dollars again and again and again the
mother disappears in three days the
child becomes a ward of the state
because he's permanently and genetically
damaged just look at those little
children and if anybody can even think
about legalizing drugs they've lost me
now let's look at priorities you know we
went on the libyan rate remember that
one because we were worried to death
that gaddafi might be building up
chemical weapons
we've got chemical warfare being
conducted against our children on the
streets in this country all day every
day and we don't have the will to stamp
it out and again i get up there if you
send me we're gonna have some blunt
talks about this and we're really going
to get out in the trenches and say is
this one you want to talk about or fix
because talk won't do it folks they're
guys they couldn't get a job
third shift in a dairy queen driving
bmws mercedes selling drugs and these
old boys are not going to quit easy
governor clinton one minute like mr
perot i have held crack babies in my
arms but i know more about this i think
than anybody else up here because i have
a brother who's a recovering drug addict
i'm very proud of him but i can tell you
this if drugs were legal i don't think
he'd be alive today i am adamantly
opposed to legalizing drugs he is alive
today because of the criminal justice
system that's a mistake what should we
do first we ought to prevent more of
this on the street thirty years ago
there were three policemen for every
crime now there are three crimes for
every policeman we need a hundred
thousand more police on the street i
have a plan for that
secondly we ought to have treatment on
demand thirdly we ought to have boot
camps for first-time nonviolent
offenders so they can get discipline and
treatment in education and get
reconnected to the community before
they're severed and sent to prison where
they can learn how to be first class
criminals there is a crime bill that
lamentably was blocked from passage once
again mostly by republicans in the
united states senate which would have
addressed some of these problems that
crime bill is going to be one of my
highest priorities next january if i
become president
the next question is to you mr perot
you have two minutes to answer it and
john alaska mr perot racial division
continues to tear apart our great cities
the last episode being the spring in los
angeles why is this still happening in
america and what would you do to end it
i this is relevant question here tonight
first thing i do is during political
campaigns i would urge everybody to stop
trying to split this country into
fragments and appeal to the differences
between us and then wonder why the
melting pots all broken to pieces after
november the 3rd we are all in this
together we ought to love one another
because united teams win the divided
teams lose if we can't love one another
we ought to get along with one another
if you can't get there just recognize
we're all stuck with one another because
nobody's going anywhere
right now that ought to get everybody
back up so let's get along together and
make it work our diversity is a strength
we've turned it into a weakness now
again the white house is a bully pulpit
i think whoever's in the white house
should just make it absolutely
unconscionable and inexcusable and if
anybody's in the middle of a speech at a
petty you know one of these conventions
i would expect the candidate to go out
and lift him off the stage if he starts
preaching hate because we don't have
time for it
see our differences are our strengths we
have got to pull together in athletics
we know it divided teams lose united
teams win we have got to unite and pull
together and there's nothing we can't do
but if we sit around blowing all this
energy out the window on racial strife
and hatred we are stopped with a sure
loser because we have been
a melting pot we're becoming more and
more of a melting pot let's make it a
strength not a weakness governor clinton
one minute i grew up in the segregated
south thankfully raised by a grandfather
with almost no formal education but with
a heart of gold who taught me early that
all people were equal in the eyes of god
i saw the winds of hatred divide people
and keep the people of my state poorer
than they would have been spiritually
and economically and i've done
everything i could in my public life to
overcome racial divisions we don't have
a person to waste in this country we are
being murdered economically because we
have too many dropouts we have too many
low birth weight babies we have too many
drug addicts as kids we have too much
violence we are too divided by race by
income by region and i have devoted a
major portion of this campaign to going
across this country and looking for
opportunities to go to white groups and
in african american groups and latino
groups asian american groups and say the
same thing if the american people cannot
be brought together we can't turn this
country around if we can come together
nothing nothing can stop us
mr president one minute well i i think
governor clinton is committed i do think
it's fair to note he can rebut it that
arkansas is one of the few states that
doesn't have any civil rights
legislation i've tried to use the white
house as a bully pulpit speaking out
against discrimination we passed two
very forward-looking civil rights bills
it's not going to be all done by
legislation but i do think that you need
to make an appeal every time you can to
eliminate racial divisions and
discrimination and i'll keep on doing
that and pointing to some legislative
accomplishment to back it out i have to
take ten seconds here at the end the red
light isn't on yet to say to ross perot
please don't say to the dea agents on
the street we don't have the will to
fight drugs please i've watched these
people the same for our local law
enforcement people we're backing up at
every way we possibly can but but maybe
you've met that some in the country
don't have the will to fight it but
those that are out there on the front
line as you know you've been strong
backer of law enforcement really i just
want to have clear that up have the will
to fight it and frankly some of them are
given their lives
time mr president alright let's go now
to another subject subject of health the
first question for two minutes is to
president bush and john r alaska
mr president yesterday tens of
thousands of people paraded past the
white house to demonstrate their concern
about the disease aids a celebrated
member of your commission magic johnson
quit saying that there was too much
where is this widespread feeling coming
from that your administration is not
doing enough about aids coming from the
political process we have increased
funding for aids we've doubled it
on research and on every other aspect of
it my request for this year was four
point nine billion dollars for aids ten
times as much for aids victim as per
cancer victim i think that we're showing
the proper compassion and concern so i
can't tell you where it's coming from
but i am very much concerned about aids
and i believe that we've got the best
researchers in the world out there at
nih working the problem we're funding
them i wish there was more money but
we're funding them far more than any
time in the past and we're gonna keep on
doing that i don't know he's a little
disappointed in magic because he came to
me and i said now if you see something
we're not doing look get a hold of me
call me let me know he went to one
meeting and then we heard that he was
stepping down so he's been replaced by
mary fisher who electrified the
republican convention by talking about
the compassion and the concern that we
feel it was a beautiful moment and i
think she'll do a first-class job on
that commission so i think the appeal is
yes we care and the other thing is part
of aids it's one of the few diseases
where behavior matters and i once called
on somebody will change your behavior
the behavior you're using prone to cause
aids change the behavior next thing i
know one of these act up groups is out
saying bush ought to change his bag you
can't talk about it rationally they the
extremes are hurting the aids cause to
go into a catholic mass in a beautiful
cathedral in new york under the cause of
helping in aids and start throwing
condoms around in the mess i'm sorry i
think it sets back the cause we cannot
move to the extreme we've got to care
we've got to continue everything we can
at the federal and the local level
barbara i think is doing a superb job in
destroying the myth about
and all of us are in this fight together
all of us care do not go to the extreme
one minute mr perot first i think mary
fisher was a great choice we're lucky to
have have her heading the commission
secondly i think one thing that if i
were sent to do the job i would sit down
with the fda you look exactly where we
are then i would really focus on let's
get these things out if you're going to
die you don't have to go through this
10-year cycle that fda goes through on
new drugs believe me people with aids
are more than willing to take that risk
and we could be that we could be moving
out to the human population a whole lot
faster than we are on some of these new
drugs so i would i think we can expedite
the problem let me go back a minute to
racial device innis all-time low in our
country was the judge thomas anita hill
hearings and those senators ought to be
hanging their heads in shame for what
they did there
how many times in your life when you get
to talk to the whole country but let me
just say this to all of america if you
hate people
i don't want your vote that's how
strongly i feel about it governor
clinton one-minute over 150,000
americans have died of aids well over a
million and a quarter americans are hiv
positive we need to put one person in
charge of the battle against aids to cut
across all the agencies that deal with
it we need to accelerate the drug
approval process we need to fully fund
the act named for that wonderful boy
ryan white to make sure we're doing
everything we can on research and
treatment and the president should lead
a national effort to change behavior to
keep our children alive in the schools
responsible behavior to keep people
alive this is a matter of life and death
i've worked in my state to reduce teen
pregnancy and illness among children i
know it's tough the reason magic johnson
resigned from the aids commission is
because the statement you heard tonight
from mr bush is the longest and best
statement he's made about it in public
i'm proud about i'm proud of what we did
at the democratic convention putting two
hiv-positive people on the platform and
i'm proud of the leadership and i'm
going to bring to this country in
dealing with the aids crisis
new question for mr poirot you have two
minutes to answer an animal ask it mr
pro even if you've got what people say
are the guts to take on changes in the
most popular the most sacred of the
entitlements medicare people say you
haven't a prayer of actually getting
anything passed in washington since the
president isn't a lone ranger how in the
world can you make some of those
unpopular changes two ways number one if
i get there it will be a very unusual
and historical event because the people
because the people not the special
interest put me there i will have a
unique mandate i have said again and
again and this really upsets the
establishment in washington that we're
going to end the forum the people in
detail on the issues through an
electronic townhall so that they really
know what's going on they will want to
do what's good for our country now all
these fellas $4,000 suits and alligator
shoes running up and down the halls of
congress that make policy now the
lobbyists the pac guys the foreign
lobbyists whatever they'll be over there
in the smithsonian you know
we're gonna get rid of them and the
congress will be listening to the people
and the american people are willing to
have fair shared sacrifice they're not
as stupid as washington thinks they are
the american people are bright
intelligent carrying loving people who
want a great country for their children
and grandchildren and they will make
those sacrifices so i welcome that
challenge and just watch because if the
american people send me there we'll get
it done now everybody will faint in
washington they've never seen anything
happen in that town this is a town where
the white house says congress did it
congress says the white house did it and
i'm sitting there and say well who else
could be around you know then then when
they get off by themselves they said
nobody did it and yet the cash register
is empty and it used to have our money
the taxpayers money in it and we didn't
get the results not we'll get it done
govenor one minute ross that's a great
speech but it's not quite that simple i
mean look at the facts both parties in
washington the president and the
congress have cut medicare the average
senior citizen is spending a higher
percentage of income on health care
today than they were in 1965 before
medicare came in presidents got another
proposal to require than to pay $400 a
year more for the next five years but if
you don't have the guts to control costs
by changing the insurance system and
taking on the bureaucracies and the
regulation of health care in the private
and public sector you can't fix this
problem costs will continue to spiral
and just remember this folks a lot of
folks on medicare are out there every
day making the choice between food and
medicine not poor enough for medicare
medicaid not wealthy enough to buy their
medicine i've met them people like mary
annie and edward davis in nashua new
hampshire all over this country they
cannot even buy medicine so let's be
careful when we talk about cutting
health care costs let's start with the
insurance companies and the people that
are making a killing
instead of making our people healthy
one minute president bush well first
place i'd like to clear up something
because every four years the democrats
go around and say hey republicans are
gonna cut social security and medicare
they started it again i am the president
that stood up and said don't mess with
social security and i'm not going to and
we haven't and we are not going to go
after the social security recipient i
have one difference with mr perot on
that because i don't think we need to
touch social security what we do need to
do though is control the growth of these
mandatory programs and ross properly
says okay there's some pain in that but
governor clinton refuses to touch that
simply refuses so what we've got to do
is control it to the growth let it grow
for inflation let it grow for the amount
of new people added population and then
hold the line and i believe that is the
way you get the deficit down not by the
tax-and-spend program that we hear every
four years whether it's mondale dukakis
whoever else it is i just don't believe
we ought to do that so hold the line on
these on social security and put a cap
on the growth of the mandatory program
new question it is for governor clinton
two men at answer sandy will ask it
governor clinton and compton has brought
up medicare i remember in 1965 when
wilbur mills of arkansas the chairman of
ways and means was pushing it through
the congress the charge against it was
it socialized medicine one made that
charge well he served within two two
years later in 1967 where i first met
him the second point though is that it
is now skyrocketing out of control
people want it we say it's going bonkers
is not the oregon plan applied to
medicaid rationing the proper way to go
even though the federal government last
august ruled that violated the americans
with disabilities act of 1990
well i thought the oregon plan should at
least have been allowed to be tried
because the least of people in oregon
were trying to do something but let me
go back to the main points andy mr bush
is trying to run against lyndon johnson
and jimmy carter and everybody in the
world but me in this race i have
proposed a managed competition plan for
health care i will say again you cannot
control healthcare costs simply by
cutting medicare look what's happened
the federal government has cut medicare
and medicaid in the last few years
states have cut medicaid we've done it
in arkansas under budget pressures but
what happens more and more people get on
the rolls as poverty increases if you
don't control the health care cost of
the entire system you cannot get control
of it look at our program we set up a
national ceiling on health care costs
tied to inflation and population growth
set by health care providers not by the
government we provide for managed
competition not government models in
every state and we control private and
public health care costs now just a few
days ago a bipartisan commission of
republicans and democrats more
republicans and democrats said my plan
will save the average family $1,200 a
year more than the bush plan will by the
year 2000 2.2 trillion dollars in the
next 12 years four hundred billion
dollars a year by the end of this decade
i've got a plan to control health care
costs but you can't just do it by
cutting medicare you have to take on the
insurance companies the bureaucracies
and you have to have cost controls yes
but keep in mind we are spending 30
more on health care than any country in
the world any other country and yet we
have 35 million people uninsured we have
no preventive from primary care the
organ plan is a good start if the
federal government's going to continue
to abandon this responsibilities i say
if germany can cover everybody and keep
costs under inflation if hawaii can
cover 98 percent of their people at
lower health care costs and the rest of
us if rochester new york can do it with
2/3 of the cost of the rest of us
america can do it too i'm tired of being
told we can't i say we can we can do
better and we must
president bush one minute well i don't
have time in 30 seconds or whatever
minute to talk about our health care
reform plan oregon plan made some good
sense but it's easy to dismiss the
concerns of the disabled this president
i have to be sure that those waivers
which were approving all over the place
are covered under the law maybe we can
work it out but the americans for
disabilities act speaking about sound
and sensible civil rights legislation
was the most foremost piece of
legislation passed in modern times and
so we do have something more than a
technical problem governor clinton
clicked off the things you had to take
on insurance companies and bureaucracies
he failed to take on somebody else the
malpractice suit people those that bring
these lawsuits against these frivolous
trial lawyers lawsuits that are running
cost of medical care up by 25 to 50
billion and he refuses to put anything
controls on these crazy lawsuits if you
want to help somebody don't run the
costs up by making doctors have to have
five or six tests where one would do for
fear of being sued or have somebody
along the highway not stop to pick up a
guy and help them because he's afraid of
trial lawyer will come along and ensue
him we're suing each other too much and
caring for each other too little mr
perot one minute
we got the most expensive healthcare
system in the world
ranks behind 15 other nation means when
we come to into life expectancy in 22
other nations when we come to infant
mortality so we don't have the best
pretty simple folks if you're paying
more and you don't have the best if all
else fails go copy the people who have
the best who spend less write what we
can do better than that again we've got
plans lying all over the place in
nobody ever implements them now i'm back
to square one if you want to stop
talking about it and do it then i'll be
glad to go up there and we'll get it
done but if you just want to keep the
music going
just stay traditional this next time
around and this four years from now
you'll have everybody blaming everybody
else for a bad health care system talk
is cheap words are plentiful deeds are
precious let's get on with it and that's
exactly what we're going to do that was
in fact the final question and answer
we're now going to move to closing
statements each candidate will have up
to two minutes the order remember was
determined by a drawing and mr perot
you were first it's been a privilege to
be able to talk the american people
tonight i make no bones about it i love
this country
i love the principle that's founded on i
love the people here i don't like to see
the country's principles violated i
don't like to see the people in a
deteriorating economy in a deteriorating
country because our government has lost
touch with the people the people in
washington are good people we just have
a bad system we've got to change the
system it's time to do it because we
have grown run up so much debt that time
is no longer our friend we've got to put
our house in order when you go to bed
tonight look at your children
think of their dreams think of your
dreams as a child and ask yourself isn't
it time to stop talking about it isn't
it time to stop creating images isn't it
time to do it aren't you sick of being
treated like a nun program robot every
four years they send you all kinds of
messages to tell you how to vote and
then go back to business as usual they
told you at the tax and budget summit
that if you agreed to a tax increase we
could balance the budget they didn't
tell you that that same year they
increased spending a dollar 83 cents for
every dollar we increased taxes that's
washington in a nutshell right there in
the final analysis i'm doing this for
your children's when you look at them
tonight there's another group that i
feel very close to and these the men and
women who fought on the battlefield the
children the families the ones who died
the people who left parts their bodies
over there i'd never ask you to do
anything for me but i owe you this and
i'm doing it for you and i can't tell
you what it means to me at these rallies
when i see you and you come up and the
look in your eyes and i know how you
feel when you know how i feel
governor clinton your closing statement
i'd like to thank the people of st
louis and washington university the
presidential debate commission and all
those who made this night possible and
i'd like to thank those of you who are
watching most of all i'd like to thank
all of you who have touched me in some
way over this last year all the
thousands of you whom i seen i'd like to
thank the computer executives the
electronics executives in silicon valley
two-thirds of whom are republicans who
said they wanted to sign on to a change
to create a new america i'd like to
thank the hundreds of executives who
came to chicago a third of them
republicans who said they wanted to
change i'd like to thank the people who
started with mr perot who've come on to
help our campaign i'd like to thank all
the folks around america that no one
ever knows about the woman who was
holding the aids baby she adopted in
cedar rapids iowa who've asked me to do
something more for adoption the woman
who stopped along the road and was
consonant wept because her husband had
lost his job after 27 years all the
people who are having a tough time and
the people who are winning but who know
how desperately we need to change this
debate tonight has made crystal clear a
challenge that is as old as america the
choice between hope and fear change or
more of the same the courage to move
into new tomorrow or to listen to the
crowd who says things could be worse mr
bush had said some very compelling
things tonight that don't quite square
with the record he was president for
three years before he proposed a health
care plan that still hasn't been sent to
congress in total three years before an
economic plan and he still didn't say
tonight that that tax bill he vetoed
raised taxes only on the rich and gave
the rest of you a break but he vetoed it
anyway i offer a new direction invest in
american jobs american education control
health care costs bring this country
together again i want the future of this
country to be as bright and brilliant as
its past and it can be if we have the
courage to change
president bush your closing statement
let me tell you a little what it's like
to be president in the oval office you
can't predict what kind of crisis is
going to come up you have to make tough
calls you can't be on one hand with this
way in one hand another you can't take
different positions on these difficult
issues and then you need a philosophical
i call it a philosophical underpinning
mine for foreign affairs is democracy
and freedom and look at the dramatic
changes around the world cold war is
over soviet union is no more and working
with democratic country poland hungary
czechoslovakia the baltics are free take
a look at the middle east we had to
stand up against a tyrant the united
states came together if we haven't in
many many years and we kicked this man
out of kuwait and in the process as a
result of that will and that decision
and that toughness we now have ancient
enemies talking peace in the middle east
nobody would have dreamed it possible
and i think the biggest dividend of
making these tough calls is the fact
that we are less afraid of nuclear war
every parent out there has much less
worried that their kids are going to be
faced with nuclear holocaust all this is
good on the domestic side what we must
do is have change that empowers people
not change for the sake of change
tax-and-spend we don't need to do that
anymore what we need to do is empower
people we need to invest and save we
need to do better in education we need
to do better in job retraining we need
to expand our exports and they're going
very very well indeed and we need to
strengthen the american family i hope as
president that i've earned your trust
i've admitted it i'm gonna make a
mistake but then i go on and help try to
solve the problems i hope i've earned
your trust because a lot of being
president is about trust and character
and i asked for your support for four
more years to finish this job thank you
very very much
don't go away yet
i just
i just want to
i just want to thank the three panelists
and thank the three candidates for
participating president bush governor
clinton and mr perot they will appear
again together on october the 15th and
again on october 19th the next tuesday
there will be a debate among the three
candidates for vice president and for
now from washington university in st
louis missouri i'm jim lehrer thank you
and good night
and i'm tom brokaw washington university
you're looking at mrs bush obviously if
the candidates begin to shake hands with
each other that is margo perot who is
also attending this i think that you can
say safely that we went the distance
here but there were no knockouts and no
knock downs all three candidates
reinforced their campaign themes and
their campaign styles president bill
clinton and ross perot the president
saying that the country is not in a
saree shaped as bill clinton has
described it but he did make some news
tonight by saying that if he's real like
it he'll appoint jim baker effectively a
domestic czar we'll be hearing for mr
baker personally here momentarily bill
clinton stood behind his economic
program and was not pressed much on how
he could make it all add up he had a
resounding response however to questions
about his patriotism and about his
behavior the young student when he said
this country is looking to be united not
divided any more in direct response to
the president's questions about his
principles and his judgment as a young
student who was opposed to the war ross
perot again not many specifics talking a
lot about task forces and getting the
job done and working for the people but
he does win on snappy one-liners
including one that may have been
inadvertent when he said if you have a
solution to the drug problem i'm all
well his ears are a rather prominent
part of it and i mean that role after
john chancellor he has world class here
does ross perot alright i think tom all
these men showed us their strengths
tonight i think perot looked like a
great salesman and phrase maker but
there is something technical and not
spiritual about ross perot when he talks
about crack babies he talked about the
cost to the nation instead of the horror
of the children but he says that we
don't have time to hate divided teams
don't win
i don't think that he really built on
his position i think he simply
reinforced what people knew about it as
far as bill clinton is concerned i think
he looked like a man who knows a great
deal about economic affairs and did
doesn't seem untrustworthy and i think
that's very good for him and the
president looked quite strong in foreign
affairs his knowledge of dealing with
other countries in the military but tom
as you said with with secretary baker
coming in here what the president said
is elect me because i'll give you james
baker in a new congress and he sounds
mr bush sounds like he's running for
president instead of being president
well we'll have a chance to talk to mr
baker about all that just a few moments
as we watch the candidates we want to
tell you will be back here momentarily
we want to tell you as well though later
on and the eastern and central time
zones nbc will be joining in progress
eyewitness video and new mini-series
lady boss will be back from san louis
right after this